Robot Basketball was a capstone project, a graduation requirement for my bachelor's degree, that I did for my Senior Design at UCF. Orlando being the city of themed entertainment industry and my experience working at Universal and interning at Birket allowed me to take on this engineering challenge. Robot Basketball is an advanced Human Entertainment system that allows users to play basketball with an xBox controller by meticulously integrating Computer Vision, Bluetooth, Custom PCB and firmware, and PyGames Game Engine like technologies.

The Project is split into three primary systems: Arena, Robot, and Game. The robot system is the device for physically interacting with the basketball court and basketball. The robot receives commands from the arena control-system and executes them. The Arena system encompasses all things related to the basketball court, basketball, physical frame structure, and computer vision. The Computer Vision subsystem is used to determine the position and orientation of the robot on the court. It also tracks the position of the ball. The Game System involves taking data in from the player and displaying information such as game and robot status, instant replays, and high-level robot control functionality.

The Robot subsystem is comprised of all the components required to pick up and launch a ball from various places on the court. The robot acts as an Input-Output device that simply takes inputs from other systems and executes them based on a set of parameters on the robot. Additionally, it provides insight into its state by providing information to other systems.

My role in this project was to manage and operate both the Arena and Robot's Electrical Systems along with Arena-Robot Integration Communication System. To accomplish so a custom PCB for the Robot was designed using Diptrace's Schematic capture and PCB design tool suite. For the Arena, no such PCB was necessary as a lot of the work was done in configuring the Ubuntu OS to suit the project's needs. One big challenge that needed to be overcome during the development process was getting Robot and Jetson Nano's bluetooth to work together. Jetson Nano has a custom Linux image and therefore, to the get the bluetooth on Serial Port Profile (SPP) to work the entire kernel had to be recompiled with 'rfcomm' option specified. Sparkfun's SilverSMiRF RN-15 based bluetooth module was used on the robot to perform bluetooth communication. A custom packet was also designed for successful exchange of information. Additionally, I was also in-charge of programming the NeoPixel animations on the Arena and ensured that the sound and lights were in sync by working with my teammates.  

Overall, the project was a success and a great learning experience that allowed me to learn and grow as a student, a team player, and especially as a professional engineer. A glimpse at my work is displayed below along with a demo video:
